---
layout: post
title: Tutorial 4 - Panorama Reality
---
### Before you start
Make sure you have completed [tutorial 1](/about)

### What you should see
As you move your camera around, you should see a panoramic, 360-degree view of Atlanta’s midtown.
{% include tutorial4Video.html %}

### Introduction
In Geolocation, Vuforia, Compass, Periodic Table tutorials, we have used the default reality (the device's camera to show the world around the user). As noted in the Overview, Argon3 can display other realities (other backgrounds). Currently there is one other reality that has been defined and is available for use: [static panoramic images](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panorama).

A panoramic image provides a 360-degree view around the user from one specific geolocation. argon.js accepts imagery in two forms:

1. a single equirectangular projection jpg or png
2. a "skybox" consisting of 6 image panels.
We will see the code below for creating each kind.

### Useful hints / Size Limitation
The equirectangular version of the Argon panorama is mapped as a single texture onto the inside of a sphere using WebGL. The texture size is limited, and the limits may be different on different devices.

At present, a texture of *4000 x 2000* seems to be a safe limit. (The aspect ratio should always be 2x1) You can achieve greater resolution using the skype box, because each of the 6 panels is a single texture mapped onto one surface of a cube. Each texture is approximately 4000 x 4000.

### Generating Panoramas
Panoramas can be created using a tripod, a "panohead", and a conventional camera— by taking a series of overlapping images and then stitching them together using software such as [PTGui](https://www.ptgui.com). PTGui (or similar software) will then generate an equirectangular image or the skybox panels that can be used in Argon. You can also generate "quick-and-dirty" panoramas using apps that exploit the smartphone camera directly, such as Microsoft's Photosynth.

### Main file (index.html)
In the html file, we call the others scripts as usual. The body tag contains an explanation of the pano, which the user will see in Page mode.

{% highlight js %}
<body style="background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.7)">
    <h2>Panorama as reality (background)</h2>
      <p>This example illustrate the use of a panorama as an Argon reality...
        ...
      </p>
</body>
{% endhighlight %}

### Code file (app.js)
To begin we define the immersive Context to be a panorama (instead of the device's camera, which is the default).
{% highlight js %}
  var panoramaReality = new Argon.Reality.Panorama;
  Argon.immersiveContext.setRequiredReality(panoramaReality);
{% endhighlight %}
Now we create the panorama itself.

### The equirectangular panorama
For the equirectangular image pano, we specify that type and the source.
{% highlight js %}
var pano1 = {
    type: 'equirectangular',
    source: 'pano2.jpg',
    headingOffset:0,
    cartographicDegrees: [33.7758,84.3947]
}
{% endhighlight %}


The headingOffset indicates where north is defined in the panorama (in degrees from 0 to 359). If the center of the pano image is north, then the headingOffset is 0, as indicated here. The variable cartographicDegrees indicates the geolocation of the Panorama: where the image was taken or where we want to represent the image as being located on the earth.

### The skybox (6 panel) panorama
To create a skybox pano, the code is:
{% highlight js %}
var pano2= {
    type: 'skybox',
    source: {
        up: 'woodruff/up.png',
        down: 'woodruff/down.png',
        north: 'woodruff/north.png',
        east: 'woodruff/east.png',
        south: 'woodruff/south.png',
        west: 'woodruff/west.png'
            },
    headingOffset:0,
    cartographicDegrees: [33.7758,84.3947,0]
}
{% endhighlight %}
Here we specific a set of six images.

### Set the panorama as the reality

We only need one of the above types for any given panorama reality. In either case, we set the panoramaReality to the pano created. So either:

{% highlight js %}
panoramaReality.setPanorama(pano1);
{% endhighlight %}
or
{% highlight js %}
panoramaReality.setPanorama(pano2);
{% endhighlight %}
