---
layout: post
title: Tutorial 5 - Geolocation
---
### Before you start
Make sure you have completed [tutorial 1](/about)

### What you should see
Download [Argon3](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/argon3/id944297993?ls=1&mt=8) and [Try Now](/argon-tutorials/tutorial2)

If you are on the Georgia Tech campus, move your camera around until you see a floating Buzz box.
Regardless of location, you should see a floating wooden box.
{% include tutorial5Video.html %}

### Introduction
The Argon3 browser allows the developer to place 3D content in the world for display to the user and interaction with the user. The content can be located 1. relative to the device itself or 2. relative to the earth or the celestial frame. argon.js uses Cesium (http://cesiumjs.org) to establish a precise geolocation for a local point of origin on the earth and then uses that origin for its local frame of reference to locate the camera and any 3D objects the application creates. (See the Background for a fuller explanation of how argon.js uses Cesium.)


This example illustrates both ways of locating content: 1. It finds the current location of the viewer and positions a cube at a well-known nearby location (the Georgia Tech campus, for us). This cube is covered with a texture of Buzz, the Georgia Tech mascot.  2. It creates a second cube a small distance away from where the user was positioned when the example was loaded.  It does this by adding a small amount to the user's current east-west location, in the local taronhree.js cartesian coordinates.  This illustrates how to create geospatial content based on the current location and update the internal geospatial location of the object


### Main file (index.html)
In the index.html, the body tag is in two parts.  The "argon-immersive-context" div is used to create a small dynamic information box at the bottom of the screen that will track the user's location and the position of the two objects.  Text outside this special div is rendered only when the user enters "Page Mode" by touching the icon in the top right corner of the interface. In this case,  the text in Page Mode offers an explanation of the example that appears on the screen over the background context.

{% highlight js %}
<body>
  <div id="argon-immersive-context">
<div id="menu">
<button id="location">lon (0) lat (0)</button>
    </div>  
  </div>
  <h1>A Simple Geolocation example</h1>
  <p>This example takes the current location of the viewer, and positions a cube at a well-known nearby location (the Georgia Tech campus, for us), and creates a second cube a small distance away from where the viewer was positioned when the example was loaded.  We do this by adding a small amount to our current east-west location, in the local Three.js cartesian coordinates.  This illustrates how to create geospatial content based on the current location, and update the internal geospatial location of the object.</p>
</body>
{% endhighlight %}

### Code file (app.js)
To begin we define the immersive Context to be a panorama (instead of the device's camera, which is the default).
{% highlight js %}
  var panoramaReality = new Argon.Reality.Panorama;
  Argon.immersiveContext.setRequiredReality(panoramaReality);
{% endhighlight %}
Now we create the panorama itself.
