---
layout: post
title: Tutorial 6 - Using Argon.js with Vuforia
---
### Before you start
Make sure you have completed [tutorial 1](/about)
Follow:[this](https://developer.vuforia.com/sites/default/files/sample-apps/targets/imagetargets_targets.pdf) link to view the image targets used in this tutorial

### What you should see
Download [Argon3](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/argon3/id944297993?ls=1&mt=8) and [Try Now](/argon-tutorials/tutorial3)

1. When your camera captures the stones image, you should see a colorful, 3d box floating and spinning above the image.
{% include tutorial6Video1.html %}

2. When your camera captures the wood chips image, you should see an animated 3D graphic monster. (It looks something like a four-legged lizard walking in place.)
You can move your camera to view the 3d objects from different angles.
{% include tutorial6Video2.html %}

### Introduction
Vuforia is the image tracking system from Qualcomm Vuforia, which argon.js uses to recognize an image from a database and register graphics in relation to the image. This tutorial shows how to use an image from a database within argon.js. To use this feature effectively, you need to register with Vuforia and create your own database of images. When you register with Vuforia, you will receive a key to your database. This key guarantees that only the users of your applications can access your database. To use Vuforia in Argon3, you will need to insert an encrypted form of your key into your code.

For the purposes of this tutorial example, however, we can use the standard "stones and chips" images provided by Vuforia without a developer's key. On top of the stones image, we will place a box that spins. On top of the chips images, we place an animated 3D graphic monster. (It looks something like a four-legged lizard walking in place.)

### Main file (index.html)
Here is the html that goes into the body. There is no "argon-immersive-context" div in this example. The body contains text that appears when the application is set to Page Mode: the text identifies the example for the user and provides a link to the stones and chips image.

{% highlight js %}
<body style="background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.7)">
 <div>  
    <h2>Vuforia image tracking example</h2>
    <p>This example illustrates the use of Vuforia for image tracking. It is designed to work with the standard <a href="https://developer.vuforia.com/sites/default/files/sample-apps/targets/imagetargets_targets.pdf"> "stones and chips" Vuforia image</a>.</P>
 </div>
</body>
{% endhighlight %}

### Code file (app.js)
We start with the standard setup. We are using the immersive context (the camera built into the device). We use webgl to render the scene, including the 3D graphic object that we will present.
{% highlight js %}
 var options = THREE.Bootstrap.createArgonOptions( Argon.immersiveContext );
 options.renderer = { klass: THREE.WebGLRenderer };
 var three = THREE.Bootstrap( options );
{% endhighlight %}
We add light to our scene, because we will have a 3D object that needs to be lighted. These are three.js objects and methods, which you can find documented at http://threejs.org/docs/:

{% highlight js %}
var light = new THREE.DirectionalLight( 0xffffff, 1 light.position.set( 0, -4, -4 ).normalize();
three.scene.add( light );
var pointLight = new THREE.PointLight( 0xffffff, 1.5, 1000 ) three.camera.add(pointLight);
{% endhighlight %}

Tell argon.js that we require Vuforia for image tracking:
{% highlight js %}
Argon.immersiveContext.setRequiredCapabilities('Vuforia')
{% endhighlight %}

### The license key
Then we initialize Vuforia with a license key. If the developer is using his or her own database, then the encrypted licenseKey would go here (see the end of this tutorial for how to do this). We put null and default to the Vuforia chips and stones image.

{% highlight js %}
Argon.Vuforia.initialize({
    licenseKey: null,
    startCamera: true,
  })
  .then(function(api) {
    // load, activate, and use our dataSet
    api.loadDataSetFromURL('dataset/StonesAndChips.xml').then(function (dataSet) {
      dataSet.activate()
      setupStonesContent(dataSet.trackables.stones)
      setupChipsContent(dataSet.trackables.chips)
    }).then(api.startObjectTracker)
      .then(api.hintMaxSimultaneousImageTargets.bind(api, 2))
  })
{% endhighlight %}

### Setting up the trackables
This function sets up the content that will appear over the stones images. In this case we use three.js methods to construct and texture the box. This function shows the box when the stones image is recognized by Argon and removes the box when the image is lost (i.e. if the user moves the phone so that the camera can no longer see the image). When the box is first recognized, it spins 10 times, then stops.

{% highlight js %}
function setupStonesContent( stonesEntity ) {
    // create an Object3D from the stones entity
    var stones = three.argon.objectFromEntity(stonesEntity)
    // create a box
    var box = new THREE.Mesh(new THREE.BoxGeometry(50, 50, 50), new THREE.MeshNormalMaterial())
    box.position.y = 25
    var boxSpin = 0
    // add and spin the box when the stones trackable is found
    stones.addEventListener('argon:found', function() {
      stones.add(box)
      boxSpin = 10
    })
    // remove the box when the stones trackable is lost
    stones.addEventListener('argon:lost', function() {
      stones.remove(box)
    })
    // animate the box
    three.on('update', function() {
      box.rotation.y += boxSpin * three.Time.delta
      if (boxSpin > 0) boxSpin -= 10 * three.Time.delta
      else boxSpin = 0
    })
  }
{% endhighlight %}
This function sets up the content to appear over the chips image. In this case we load a prebuilt model of a lizard. The function shows the lizard when the chips image is recognized by argon.js and removes it when the image is lost.
{% highlight js %}
function setupChipsContent( chipsEntity ) {
    // create an Object3D from the chips entity
    var chips = three.argon.objectFromEntity(chipsEntity)
    // add the model when the chips trackable is found
    chips.addEventListener('argon:found', function() {
      getModel().then(function(model) {
        chips.add(model)
      })
    })
    // remove the model when the chips trackable is lost
    chips.addEventListener('argon:lost', function() {
      getModel().then(function(model) {
        chips.remove(model)
      })
    })
  }
{% endhighlight %}
This is the function that loads the lizard model, called by the setupChips function above.

{% highlight js %}
var modelPromise = getModel()
  function getModel() {
    return modelPromise = modelPromise || new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
      // load the model
      var loader = new THREE.JSONLoader()
      loader.load( 'monster.js', function ( geometry, materials ) {
        materials[0].morphTargets = true
        var faceMaterial = new THREE.MeshFaceMaterial( materials )
        var morphMesh = new THREE.MorphAnimMesh( geometry, faceMaterial )
        morphMesh.duration = 1000
        morphMesh.time = 0
        morphMesh.scale.set(0.1,0.1,0.1)
        morphMesh.position.set(-100,0,0)
        morphMesh.matrixAutoUpdate = false
        morphMesh.updateMatrix()
        // animate the model
        three.on('update', function() {
          morphMesh.updateAnimation( 1000 * three.Time.delta )
        })
        resolve(morphMesh)
      })
    })
  }
{% endhighlight %}

### Testing the application

To test the completed application, you need to print out the stones and chips images or bring them up on a computer screen. Then launch the application on your phone and point it at the images.

### Creating an encrypted license key file

To use your own Vuforia targets, you must create your own Vuforia license key on the Vuforia website, and use it when initializing Vuforia in argon.js.

Since any file you put on a web server could potentially be copied by anyone with access to that server, argon.js requires that you store the license key in an encrypted JSON file. The license should be in the key field in the JSON, as a string.

In addition, since you don't want anyone else to simply copy and your Vuforia tracking datasets or your encrypted license, argon.js also requires you to store a set of url pattern's in the encrypted file, representing valid urls for Vuforia datasets that can be used with this key. The url patterns should be in the urls field in the JSON, as an array of regular expression strings.

The format of the encrypted file, with some examples of possible url patterns for the Vuforia dataset files, is:


{% highlight js %}
{
   "key": "---- YOUR VUFORIA LICENSE KEY HERE ---",
   "urls": ["^http://www.yourfullyqualifieddomain.com/.*",
      "^http[s]?://[A-Za-z0-9-.]*.yourdomain.com/.*",
      "^http[s]?://[A-Za-z0-9-.]*.yourdomain.com/directory/to/limit/url/.* ]]
}
{% endhighlight %}
To encrypt the file, you should encrypt it for the user secure@argonjs.io, using PGP. There are both commercial and free PGP implementations that can be used; we use GPG Tools on MacOSX. With GPGTools installed, fetch the public key for secure@argonjs.io using the "GPG Keychain" application, and then encrypt a file containing your JSON using secure@argonjs.io as the receipient. Do not sign or encrypt the file with a password.

The easiest way to store the encrypted file is in a script element as type "text/plain" in your HTML file, as follows:

{% highlight js %}
<script id="license" type="text/plain">-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
Comment: GPGTools - https://gpgtools.org

  hQIMA47tt+RhMWHyAQ/8Dq0iFIgfZcTpihTvSFcQXGd3ioDdTv+pwhUvmwq8kYhg
  TwsQzC4U8zV8P62gNFkfFTRM78o19QoxOM1Jpsy6lqwkFNv7a31BFy/tSa2s9GYw
  D+NbNX5vTjYrxILa7BEha4sS38P6J4/RQ0neIyOa01y7qjs/6il49DTZPPc5SIMA
  /V5VkRJQPINR5fUFleInxgwWOjmMSl+dGGEsnxI8wbL2pbdzSs3sqwKigybLjTIg
  XkrkF49FEjuyD7u5Jw2OIPkdYiSGeYJB5HArWzLgZen9EcvZUqOIYYzCbjAULZFF
  2rAXR2wvkmizEp8jPuVe43xrnmw3LGE94IkDyktQ6IFD5PwM2j88gH0th6+OD9UR
  klR5BzIQmdgksC1h63+D+LQNoLDtVrOCQ1x69uQSkBLurDVJSW/RMPIhyMk6lGtF
  cFBhkVXbY9jZ9rFXEAYCdvMUkaiDcxI1eZJxI/IGpOawAuXrNfpRl1iOlB9/Egfc
  HaMexrnQXwsioUjZKDlwxtZKRS//BvUFJuhNV9kYk3ToZ7DBGKRJem1D1MhJ26C4
  MWHgOqJ4hMtW7BkOVD7fwKSms+lgYgoHhhWypvRzUGXelo0pSGJWKauo8/tokNFv
  3yDy+lzzwOi/tUglFID/xa/HT7J3Its1PStMuYZah7Z7K0sqZ3s9C/bK7Pdn8rLS
  wBoBJCdUGJqjLA63tThhoLM6zRAR8A+4QCrQL8yNf5RkWztmGo+7c+y6C0I01dAU
  pYL95kQelEG9lb3UOsby0uACZAQ1KzZ9hEhglWY4JoGlrYayctMO5gYAUSHYoaGv
  Rt7am1wGKCH/owsD2LRf3aL4DkN+Z5HUnHWYPuBLyFuTyMVF/rzsTQrut6BNR41V
  2JqVh6kkFY7AEBC+yLhSDPoCxsC4Sem2jnqUf1iTsq7fYDFfLcRo3IwjK8qBiZrY
  udIn90/G9Zrk9Z026rC4+4QA1MfLKxDm72cbaA==
  =jWhj
  -----END PGP MESSAGE-----
</script>{% endhighlight %}

Do not put any extra space at the beginning or end of the script element contents, and do not reformat the text.

Now, to use this key in your code, get the contents of the script element and pass it to the Argon.Vuforia.initialize method as the encryptedLicenseData parameter (instead of passing null to licenseKey above).
{% highlight js %}
var encryptedData = document.getElementById("license").text;

  // initialize Vuforia with our licencse key
  Argon.Vuforia.initialize({
     encryptedLicenseData: encryptedData,
     startCamera: true,
  })
{% endhighlight %}

Once Vuforia is initialized using your encrypted license file, you can use any Vuforia dataset that is loaded from a URL matching one of the patterns in the JSON file.

Note: if a relative URL is passed to api.loadDataSetFromURL, we construct the full address from the base URL of the URL the user used to load your web application. This may be problematic if the user (or your web server) does URL redirection -- this is a known problem that we are working on fixing.
