---
layout: post
title: Tutorial 2 - Compass
---
### Before you start
Make sure you have completed [tutorial 1](/argon-tutorials/tutorial1)

### What you should see
Download [Argon3](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/argon3/id944297993?ls=1&mt=8) and [Try Now](/argon-tutorials/tutorial4)

As you move your camera around, you should see direction markers (north, east, south, west, up and down) positioned in space.
{% include tutorial2Video.html %}

### Introduction
This example demonstrates how to position content in space relative to the camera, which the user can view around her when she loads the application into Argon3.

### Main file (index.html)
In the index.html file, we explain what the example does in the body tag: this will appear when the user enters Page Mode.

{% highlight js %}
<body style="background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.7)">
    <h2>Six directions example</h2>
    <p>This example displays the reference frame around the camera in Cartesian coordinates (x, y, x). It puts a image in the negative and positive directions: x is left/right; y is up/down; z is back/front. A div is created in each of these directions and converted to cssObject (in three.js) at  600 units from the origin. These cssObjects are then added to the eyeOrigin. The eyeOrigin is the position of the camera: the cssObjects will always appear in the same locations relative to the camera. </p>   
  </body>
{% endhighlight %}

### Code file (app.js)
This example (like the next one, Periodic table) is adapted and simplified from the three.js periodic table example. For the original version, see http://threejs.org/examples/#css3d_periodictable.

We start by initializing (see 1-Getting Started).
{% highlight js %}
var options = THREE.Bootstrap.createArgonOptions( Argon.immersiveContext );
options.renderer = { klass: THREE.CSS3DRenderer };
var three = THREE.Bootstrap( options );
var eyeOrigin = three.argon.objectFromEntity(Argon.immersiveContext.eyeOrigin);
{% endhighlight %}
eyeOrigin is the Argon object linked to the (Argon-Cesium) Entity that contains the position of the camera. All the 6 objects that we will create will be positioned relative to eyeOrigin.

### Creating and placing the 6 directional signs around the camera / user
Table is an array of arrays; each inner array contains information for one of the six direction signs to be created. The first three elements in the array consist of textual information that will be displayed on the sign; the next three specify the x-y-z displacement from the camera (in meters); the last three are the x-y-z values of the rotation vector for the sign. The sign needs to be rotated so that the front faces the user / camera.
{% highlight js %}
var table = [
    [ "N", "North", "(Negative Z)", 0, 0, -600, 0, 0, 0],
    [ "S", "South", "(Positive Z)", 0, 0, 600, 0, Math.PI, 0  ],
    [ "E", "East", "(Positive X)", 600, 0, 0, 0, -Math.PI/2, 0 ],
    [ "W", "West", "(Negative X)", -600, 0, 0, 0, Math.PI/2, 0 ],
    [ "U", "Up", "(Positive Y)", 0, 600, 0, Math.PI/2, 0, 0 ],
    [ "D", "Down", "(Negative Y)", 0, -600, 0, Math.PI/2,  Math.PI, Math.PI]
  ];
{% endhighlight %}
We create a root object in three.js, to which we attach all the others.
{% highlight js %}
var objects = []
  var root = new THREE.Object3D()
{% endhighlight %}

We loop through the table, creating the divs that make up each sign.
{% highlight js %}
for ( var i = 0; i < table.length; i ++ ) {
    var item = table[ i ];

    var element = document.createElement( 'div' );
    element.className = 'element';
    element.style.backgroundColor = 'rgba(200,120,200,1)';

    var symbol = document.createElement( 'div' );
    symbol.className = 'symbol';
    symbol.textContent = item[ 0 ];
    element.appendChild( symbol );

    var details = document.createElement( 'div' );
    details.className = 'details';
    details.innerHTML = item[ 1 ] + '<br>' + item[ 2 ];
    element.appendChild( details );
{% endhighlight %}

Here we create the 3D object from the div element, push it on a stack for use later, and then add the new object to the root object.
{% highlight js %}
var object = new THREE.CSS3DObject( element );
   object.matrixAutoUpdate = false;
   objects.push( object );
   root.add(object);
 {% endhighlight %}

 The root object now has all six of the signs; so we attach it to the eyeOrigin.
{% highlight js %}
eyeOrigin.add(root);
 {% endhighlight %}
 Finally we loop through and position the six sign objects at the compass points by copying the position vector from the table array into the object. We also rotate each sign so that it faces the camera/user.

{% highlight js %}
for ( var i = 0; i < objects.length; i ++ ) {
      var item = table[ i ];
      var target = new THREE.Object3D();
      // three position values
      target.position.x = item[ 3 ];
      target.position.y = item[ 4 ];
      target.position.z = item[ 5 ];
      //the three axes of rotation
      target.rotation.x = item[ 6 ];      
      target.rotation.y = item[ 7 ];   
      target.rotation.z = item[ 8 ];   

      object = objects[ i ];
      object.position.copy(target.position);
      object.rotation.copy(target.rotation);
      object.updateMatrix();
  }
 {% endhighlight %}
 Because all the objects are placed relative to the eyeOrigin, they will move with the user/camera. In the next tutorial-example (5-Periodic), we show a more elaborate version of this same idea and also illustrates how the user can interact with 3D objects through the use of buttons on the screen.
